<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<article xmlns="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook"
         xmlns:xlink="http://www.w3.org/1999/xlink"
         xmlns:xi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XInclude"
         version="5.0">
<title>Nepomuk Ontologies</title>

   <preface id="sdo">
       <title>The Shared Desktop Ontologies</title>
<para>The vision of the Social Semantic Desktop defines a user’s personal
information environment as a source and end-point of the Semantic Web:
Knowledge workers comprehensively express their information and data with
respect to their own conceptualizations. Semantic Web languages and protocols
are used to formalize these conceptualizations and for coordinating local and
global information access. The Resource Description Framework
<link xlink:href="http://www.w3.org/RDF/">RDF</link> serves as a common data
representation format. We identified several additional requirements for
high-level knowledge representation on the social semantic desktop. With a
particular focus on addressing certain limitations of RDF, we engineered a novel
representational language akin to RDF and the Web Ontology Language
<link xlink:href="http://www.w3.org/TR/owl-features/">OWL</link>, plus a number
of other high-level ontologies. Together, they provide a means to build the
semantic bridges necessary for data exchange and application integration on
distributed social semantic desktops. Although initially designed to fulfill
requirements for the <link xlink:href="http://nepomuk.semanticdesktop.org/">
NEPOMUK</link> project, these ontologies are useful for the semantic web
community in general.</para>

   <section>
   <title>Ontology Documentation</title>
   <subtitle>Version @SHAREDDESKTOPONTOLOGIES_VERSION@</subtitle>
   <para>The ontologies described in this document are developed as an open-source project
       called <link xlink:href="http://www.sourceforge.net/projects/oscaf"><emphasis>Shared-Desktop-Ontologies (SDO)</emphasis></link>.
           The development process is centered around the <link xlink:href="https://sourceforge.net/apps/trac/oscaf/">SDO Trac repository</link>
           which is <emphasis>open to contributions from everyone</emphasis>. Additions, changes, fixes, and in general all contributions to the ontologies 
           should go the way of a ticket in that system (a better alternative is very welcome).
           </para>
        <xi:include href="ontotoc.docbook" />
   </section>
</preface>

<xi:include href="classindex.docbook" />
<xi:include href="propertyindex.docbook" />

<xi:include href="nrl.docbook" />
<xi:include href="nao.docbook" />
<xi:include href="nie.docbook" />
<xi:include href="nfo.docbook" />
<xi:include href="ncal.docbook" />
<xi:include href="nco.docbook" />
<xi:include href="nmo.docbook" />
<xi:include href="nexif.docbook" />
<xi:include href="nmm.docbook" />
<xi:include href="ndo.docbook" />
<xi:include href="nso.docbook" />
<xi:include href="nuao.docbook" />
<xi:include href="pimo.docbook" />
<xi:include href="tmo.docbook" />

</article>
